Domain, IP and port based destinations instead of split-DNS (#259)
tfpauly/privacy-proxy: draft-ietf-intarea-proxy-config.md

as described in {{proxy-pvd}}, entries in the `matchDomains` array indicate specific hosts
and zones that are accessible using the proxy. If a hostname is neither matching an specific
entry nor included in the enumerated zones, then a client SHOULD assume that the hostname
will not be accessible through the proxy. If a hostname is included in the `excludedDomains`
array, then the client SHOULD NOT access it through the proxy.

Entries listed in `matchDomains` MUST NOT expand the set of domains that a client is
willing to send to a particular proxy. The list can only narrow the list of domains
that the client is willing to send through the proxy. For example, if the client
has a local policy to only send requests for "*.example.com" to a proxy
"proxy.example.com", and the `matchDomains` array contains "internal.example.com" and
"other.company.com", the client would end up only proxying "internal.example.com"
through the proxy.

A wildcard prefix (`*.`) is used to indicate matching entire domains or subdomains instead of specific hostnames. Note
that this can be used to match multiple levels of subdomains. For example "*.example.com"

> matches "internal.example.com" as well as "www.public.example.com".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
matches "internal.example.com" as well as "www.public.example.com".
Entries that include the wildcard prefix also SHOULD be treated as if they match
an FQDN that only contains the string after the prefix, with no subdomain. So,
an entry in `matchDomains` of "*.example.com" would match the FQDN "example.com",
unless "example.com" were specifically included in `excludeDomains`. This is
done to prevent commonly needing to include both "*.example.com" and "example.com"
in the `matchDomains` list.
```

The client would learn the URI template of the proxy that supports UDP using {{CONNECT-UDP}},
at "https://proxy.example.org/masque{?target_host,target_port}".

# Destination information for proxies {#destinations}

Destination configuration is used when only a subset of destinations is reachable through
a proxy. Destination restrictions are often used in VPN tunnel configurations such as split
DNS in IKEv2 {{?IKEV2SPLIT=RFC8598}}.

PvD Additional Information can be used to indicate that a proxy PvD should be used for a limited
set of destinations.

This document defines two optional keys that for subdictionaries in the `proxies`
array that are used for split-DNS configuration.

| JSON Key | Optional | Description | Type | Example |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| matchDomains | Yes | An array of hostnames and wildcard FQDNs that can be accessed over this proxy | Array of Strings | [ "www.example.com", "*.local" ] |
| excludedDomains | Yes | An array of hostnames and wildcard FQDNs that cannot be accessed over this proxy, which should be more specific domains of entries in the matchDomains array | Array of Strings | [ "exclude.local" ] |

> | matchIPs | Yes | An array of IP addresses and subnets that can be accessed over this proxy | Array of Strings | [ "2001:DB8::1", "192.168.1.0/24" ] |

Reviewer: I wonder if this should be `matchSubnets`, and the specific IP is a special case of that (a `/128` or `/32`)

| excludeIPs | Yes | An array of IP addresses and subnets that cannot be accessed over this proxy, which should be more specific addresses or subnets of entries in the matchIP array | Array of Strings | [ "192.168.1.0/25", "192.168.1.254" ] |
| matchPorts | Yes | An array of TCP or UDP port ranges accessible over this proxy | Array of Strings | [ "80", "443", "1024-65535" ] |

> | excludePorts | Yes | An array of TCP or UDP port ranges that cannot be accessed over this proxy, which should be more specific than entries in the matchPorts array | Array of Strings | [ "3389", "8443" ] |

Reviewer 2: I am not sure about excludePorts as define here. Ports are a limited space.  Therefore you can define everything by only using matchPorts. The parsing will be easier as well.
Maybe excludedPorts should be use only without matchPorts, to define ports that are disallowed, i.e. use one or the other.
We should also define that ports above 65535 is an error, do we want to reject the configuration or just ignore the mistake?

I think we should have a limit of the number of elements in the arrays, or a recommendation that the arrays should not be longer than x elements because the implementation may reject it. Also we should define the behavior in this case, e.g. the config is rejected as a whole or elements after element x are ignored. This is a separate issue though, and I will open a new issue for it.

Author: Great ideas!
I'll update PR accordingly.

I don't think there is a concrete list size recommendation that will apply reasonably well to all kinds of clients and use cases - but I think it's a good suggestion to put more important entries in the beginning of the list.

Reviewer 2: Short correction: by "the parsing will be easier as well" I meant to say that it will be easier to create a single list instead of going through 2 lists to parse it into a single list or always check 2 lists.

Author: Absolutely! PR amended.

| matchSubnets | Yes | An array of IP addresses and subnets that can be accessed over this proxy | Array of Strings | [ "2001:DB8::1", "192.168.1.0/24" ] |
| excludeSubnets | Yes | An array of IP addresses and subnets that cannot be accessed over this proxy. If matchSubnets is specified, excludeDomains should list more specific subnets within entries in the matchSubnets array | Array of Strings | [ "192.168.1.0/25", "192.168.1.254" ] |
| matchPorts | Yes | An array of TCP or UDP port ranges accessible over this proxy | Array of Strings | [ "80", "443", "1024-65535" ] |

When present in a PvD Additional Information dictionary that is retrieved for a proxy
as described in {{proxy-pvd}}, entries in the `matchDomains` array indicate specific hosts
and zones that are accessible using the proxy. If a hostname is neither matching an specific
entry nor included in the enumerated zones, then a client SHOULD assume that the hostname

> will not be accessible through the proxy. If a hostname is included in the `excludedDomains`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will not be accessible through the proxy. If a hostname is included in the `excludeDomains`
```

| ports | Yes | An array of TCP or UDP port ranges accessible over this proxy | Array of Strings | [ "80", "443", "1024-65535" ] |

When present in a PvD Additional Information dictionary that is retrieved for a proxy
as described in {{proxy-pvd}}, entries in the `matchDomains` array indicate specific hosts
and zones that are accessible using the proxy. If a hostname is neither matching an specific
entry nor included in the enumerated zones, then a client SHOULD assume that the hostname
will not be accessible through the proxy. If a hostname is included in the `excludedDomains`
array, then the client SHOULD NOT access it through the proxy.

Entries listed in `matchDomains` MUST NOT expand the set of domains that a client is
willing to send to a particular proxy. The list can only narrow the list of domains
that the client is willing to send through the proxy. For example, if the client
has a local policy to only send requests for "*.example.com" to a proxy
"proxy.example.com", and the `matchDomains` array contains "internal.example.com" and
"other.company.com", the client would end up only proxying "internal.example.com"
through the proxy.

> Wildcard prefix (`*.`) is used to differentiate between specific hostnames and zones. Note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A wildcard prefix (`*.`) is used to indicate matching entire domains or subdomains instead of specific hostnames. Note
```

> that it is used to match multiple levels of sub-domain. For example "*.example.com"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that this can be used to match multiple levels of subdomains. For example "*.example.com"
```

matches "internal.example.com" as well as "www.public.example.com".

> Entries in `matchIPs` correspond to IP addresses and subnets that are available through the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entries in `matchSubnets` correspond to IP addresses and subnets that are available through the
```

> proxy, while entries in `excludedIPs` define IP addresses and subnets that SHOULD NOT be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proxy, while entries in `excludeSubnets` define IP addresses and subnets that SHOULD NOT be used
```

> with the proxy. IP address based destination information SHOULD only be used when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the proxy. Subnet-based destination information SHOULD only be used when
```

> communicating with destinations defined by an IP address and not a hostname.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
applications are communicating with destinations identified by only an IP address and not a hostname.
```

> `ports` in a list of strings that can be used to instruct the client that only specific destination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`matchPorts` in a list of strings that can be used to instruct the client that only specific destination
```

TCP or UDP ports are accessible through the proxy. The list may contain individual port numbers 
(such as "80") or inclusive ranges of ports. For example "1024-2048" matches all ports from 1024 

> to 2048 including the boundaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to 2048, including the 1024 and 1028.
```

Note that clients with limited resources MAY not be able to process and utilize all
entries of an excessively long list. In the case if the provided list is too long for a given

> client, it SHOULD process as many records from the beginning of `matchDomains`, `matchIPs` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client, it SHOULD process as many records from the beginning of `matchDomains`, `matchSubnets` and
```

> `ports` lists. These lists SHOULD be sorted with the most important elements placed at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`matchPorts` lists. These lists SHOULD be sorted with the most important elements placed at
```

> Note that clients with limited resources MAY not be able to process and utilize all
> entries of an excessively long list. In the case if the provided list is too long for a given
> client, it SHOULD process as many records from the beginning of `matchDomains`, `matchSubnets` and
> `matchPorts` lists. These lists SHOULD be sorted with the most important elements placed at
> the start of the list. If a client cannot consume all the entries in `excludedDomains` or
> `excludedIPs` it SHOULD NOT use given proxy configuration to avoid sending traffic that the proxy
> cannot process.
> 

Reviewer: I'm a bit concerned about this section so would prefer to remove it from the first cut of adding this support — let's discuss limited clients more!
```suggestion
```

"other.company.com", the client would end up only proxying "internal.example.com"
through the proxy.

A wildcard prefix (`*.`) is used to indicate matching entire domains or subdomains instead of specific hostnames. Note
that this can be used to match multiple levels of subdomains. For example "*.example.com"
matches "internal.example.com" as well as "www.public.example.com".
Entries that include the wildcard prefix also SHOULD be treated as if they match
an FQDN that only contains the string after the prefix, with no subdomain. So,
an entry in `matchDomains` of "*.example.com" would match the FQDN "example.com",
unless "example.com" were specifically included in `excludeDomains`. This is
done to prevent commonly needing to include both "*.example.com" and "example.com"
in the `matchDomains` list.

Entries in `matchSubnets` correspond to IP addresses and subnets that are available through the
proxy, while entries in `excludeSubnets` define IP addresses and subnets that SHOULD NOT be used
with the proxy. Subnet-based destination information SHOULD only be used when
applications are communicating with destinations identified by only an IP address and not a hostname.

> `matchPorts` in a list of strings that can be used to instruct the client that only specific destination
> TCP or UDP ports are accessible through the proxy. The list may contain individual port numbers 
> (such as "80") or inclusive ranges of ports. For example "1024-2048" matches all ports from 1024 
> to 2048, including the 1024 and 1028.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`matchPorts` in a list of strings that can be used to instruct the client that only specific destination
TCP or UDP ports are accessible through the proxy. The list may contain individual port numbers
(such as "80") or inclusive ranges of ports. For example "1024-2048" matches all ports from 1024
to 2048, including the 1024 and 1028.
```
